Chapter One

The Cat's Eye

I grew up an only child, and as far back as I can remember I was nervous around girls. I was nearly eighteen when I met Simone, a girl my own age, at a chicken farm in X. We were distant cousins but quickly became good friends. Three days after we first met, Simone and I were alone in her villa. She was wearing a black pinafore with a white collar. She seemed to be as nervous as I was!

She had on long black socks that went all the way up to her knees. She had a pet cat named Margaret (which I think is a beautiful name for a cat). Margaret sometimes liked to come out and play but much of the time stayed snuggled up under her skirt. Sometimes I could catch a glimpse of Margaret's tail peeking out below the hemline.

In the corner of one hallway in Simone's villa was a saucer of milk. "That's my kitty's milk," said Margaret. "Would you like to see my kitty have some of the milk?"

"I'd love to!" I answered enthusiastically. I hoped that Margaret would get along well with Pierre, my pet rooster, who was scratching around by the corner. Pierre followed me everywhere.

It was a very hot day. "Come on out, kitty," she coaxed, but Margaret was feeling shy. Simone gave a shrug and put the saucer on a small bench, then put one foot on the bench, covering the saucer up with the hem of her dress. I could hear the cat's claws scraping around on the wooden bench, then there was a splash as the jumped into the saucer. I could barely catch a glimpse of Margaret's tail and little feet peeking out from under the hem.

All the noise attracted Pierre's attention as well. As soon as he heard the splashing and scratching, he gave a cluck and hopped into my lap to get a better look!

Suddenly Simone stood up and gathered up the cat in her skirts. "Naughty kitty!" she scolded. Milk was dripping onto the floor, and I saw Simone take a handkerchief to wipe off Margaret's little paws. Pierre went stiff at the sight, and I grabbed him by the scruff of his neck to make sure he couldn't get up to any more mischief. When Simone saw this, she and I started laughing uncontrollably at the same time. It was as if we were tickling each other without touching each other!

When Simone's mother came home, Simone reached up and gave her a big hug. The hem of her skirt rose up and I got a view of Margaret's tail and rear haunches. I was sad that it was time to go home. I wanted to pet the kitty as well, but she was too shy! I settled for just quickly touching the tip of her tail before I said goodbye.

That evening I went home and Pierre the rooster followed me, clucking and bobbing his head. I stayed up all night playing with him and thinking how much fun it would be to play with a cute kitty. The next day when I saw Simone, she saw the dark circles I had under my eyes from staying up all night.

"Were you playing with Pierre without me?" she asked.

"Yes," I admitted.

"Don't play with him without me," she said. "And don't stay up all night playing with him or you'll both be too tired to play with me and my kitty!"

After that, Simone and I became best friends. We saw each other nearly every week. Margaret was still being shy, especially when Pierre was around (which was nearly always), but it was nice knowing that she was snuggled up under Simone's skirt.

One day our families took a trip in the countryside and we rode along in the back seat, watching the scenery go by in a blur out the car windows. Suddenly we saw a very pretty girl on a bicycle, riding down the wrong side of the road.

"Watch out," Simone said to her uncle, who was driving the car. Her uncle swerved, but it was too late. He hit the poor girl on the bicycle, who let out a squeal and bounced right off of her bike into the ditch!

Her uncle pulled the car over immediately to make sure she was alright. She had landed right in a bramble bush! She had brambles stuck to her everywhere and her hair was badly messed up!

"Are you alright?" Simone shouted to her.

"I'm okay," called out the cyclist. "But I've certainly had better Tuesdays!"

We all laughed at her funny appearance. Margaret gave a meow from under Simone's skirts, and even Pierre made some clucks that sounded like laughter!

We sat there for awhile laughing at what we had seen. The horror and despair at seeing the cyclist nearly injured was frightening, but the laughter was cathartic and reminded me of how much we had laughed the first time Simone's kitty had made a mess with the milk.

Simone was tall and very pretty. She had bright eyes and usually wore a big smile. And we shared a lot in common. Even if we hated to admit it, seeing accidental chaos like the cyclist being thrown into a ditch made us laugh even if it shouldn't. We secretly wanted her to do it again so we could watch!

It was a long time that summer before Simone's cat Margaret was comfortable enough to come out to play. I saw Simone frequently, but the cat always cowered under her skirts.

One day Simone and I were wrestling around and playing with our squirtguns and she had me lie on the ground. She hiked up her dress and stepped over me, and I could feel Margaret clambering around on my stomach with her gentle little paws.

Margaret stepped off me and then lay down next to me on her back, facing the opposite direction. She put her legs in the air, balancing her cat on her feet.

"See if you can hit Margaret with your squirt gun!" she insisted.

"If I do that, then all the water will end up on your dress and your face," I protested.

"That's okay, do it anyway," said Simone. I squirted my squirtgun several times in the air. Some of the squirt landed on her face and dress, but most of it arced over and hit her kitty, who yowled and hissed and made us both laugh heartily.

The smell of the sea mixed with the smell of wet linen, wet from my squirt gun. Evening was breaking, and we stayed on the ground in the same position, tranquil and motionless, just enjoying each other's presence. All at once we heard steps tramping through the grass.

"Don't move," Simone ordered.

The steps stopped, but we couldn't see who was coming. We both held our breaths.I imagined that if anyone saw us, especially Simone with her legs in the air balancing her cat under her skirts, they would stop and feel compelled to watch and laugh. We heard the steps resume, faster this time, almost running. Suddenly we saw the source of the footsteps, a beautiful blonde girl around our own age. It was Marcelle, the most innocent and dramatic of our friends. She spotted us and burst into tears, perhaps imagining something awful had happened to us. She threw herself on the ground in despair, and only then did we get up and approach her.

"Watch this," Simone told me, pulling up the hem of Marcelle's dress. Marcelle had her own secret hidden under her dress, a fluffy ginger cat named Coco. We both petted Coco, who seemed to enjoy the attention, while Marcelle continued crying from having seen us lying motionless on the ground.

"Meow!" declared Coco contentedly as her mistress continued sobbing on the grass. Coco rolled around in the sun happily for all to see as we scratched him, behind his ears and over his belly, gently at first and then a bit more roughly as he got used to our caresses.

"Don't cry, Marcelle," Simone pleaded, giving her a kiss on the cheek as the hot tears streamed down her face. She smoothed Marcelle's hair, trying to calm down the hysterical girl.

Meanwhile the sky had turned quite thundery and fat drops of rain began falling on the field. The cool rain felt good after an oppressively hot day, and even Margaret and Coco were enjoying the change in weather. The sea was loudly raging, even at times drowning out the sound of the thunder. Coco and Margaret began playing with each other, and the flashes of lightning in the sky would illuminate the two adorable kitties, who soon tired out and lay motionless next to each other, purring happily. The respite didn't last long, and soon all five of us were playing together, rolling the cats around on the ground and encouraging them to play fight as we wrestled each other. The storm gathered in intensity, as if mirroring our mood, and our grappling soon ended all of us in a quickly growing puddle of mud. Simone smeared the mud on herself, laughing, and clumps of it stuck in the fur of the two cats who were quickly becoming drenched and exhausted from their exertions. In a frenzy, Simone proceeded to smear mud so violently on the little ginger cat Coco that I feared for his safety and felt obligated to intervene. I splashed her face with the muddy water to bring her back to reality.

Chapter Two
The Antique Wardrobe

That was the period when Simone developed a mania for breaking eggs by sitting on them, like some sort of demented hen. At times she would get very creative with this process. Occasionally she would do a headstand on an armchair in the parlor, resting her back against the back of the chair, her legs bent towards me. I would carefully balance an egg on her bottom and then I would squirt her in the face with my squirtgun. As soon as the water hit her face, she would kick and break the egg, which would drip down and make a mess, which we would then have to clean up.

Once her mother walked in while we were in the midst of this strange ritual. We braced ourselves for a scolding, but it never came. The poor woman was too shocked and flabbergasted by the sight of us to say anything, and she turned around and walked back out. But as we were finishing up we noticed her mother lingering in the doorway, peeking around the frame at us.

"Just pretend she isn't there," Simone suggested as we began cleaning up the mess. After we were done we left the room, leaving her shocked mother standing against the wall as if she were merely part of a family portrait.

A few days later, however, when Simone and I were wrestling and having a squirtgun fight in the rafters of the egg barn, Simone accidentally squirted her squirtgun at her mother, who had the misfortune to be passing by beneath us at just the wrong time. The poor woman looked so shocked and pathetic that we both had to stifle our laughter out of respect for her. I buried my face in Margaret's pelt to keep from guffawing aloud.

More than a week had passed without seeing our new blonde friend Marcelle and her adorable kitty Coco when we ran into them on the street one day. The blonde girl, so naive and pious, blushed bright pink at the sight of us as she remembered the mischief she had been compelled to participate in and the muddy state we had left her in. Simone gave her a big hug.

"Please forgive us, Marcelle," Simone said. "We're sorry we were such a bad influence on you the other day. I hope we can still be friends. I promise we'll never get you into another such crazy situation."

Marcelle, who was easily swayed, forgave us and agreed to come over and join us for tea with some friends that afternoon at our place. But instead of tea we ended up drinking a lot of sugary drinks, which left everyone in an excited mood.

The sight of Marcelle blushing had completely overwhelmed us. We understood each other, Simone and I, and we were determined that together we could achieve anything we put our minds to. Besides Marcelle, there were three other pretty girls and two boys here. The oldest of the eight of us was just shy of nineteen years old. Everyone was getting hyperactive from the sugary drinks and desserts, but Simone decided to ramp up the excitement by putting a jazz record on the phonograph. Simone did a silly dance to the madcap music and urged the other girls to join in, which they did willingly and quite enthusiastically. Only Marcelle, who was too shy, refused to participate in the dancing.

Finally Simone, in a sugary frenzy, seized a fine tablecloth from one of the side tables, crumpled it up, and offered to make a bet as she fetched her squirtguns from the other room.

"I bet I can hit this tablecloth with my squirtgun from across the room," she declared.

It was basically a ridiculous part of mostly turbulent and boastful youngsters, and one of the boys took her up on the bet. It was agreed that the winner would fix the penalty.

Naturally, Simone did not waver for an instant. She hit the expensive tablecloth with her squirtgun not once, not twice, but several times. The tablecloth was soaked with water, and everyone laughed at the sight.

"Since the winner decides the penalty," Simone said to the loser, "I declare that you have to bow down and give my cat Margaret a big smooch!" She presented her fuzzy black cat to the poor boy as if she were his queen. He took a deep bow, then sunk to his knees and pressed his face in her fur as everyone laughed. Everyone except Marcelle, of course, who had been getting increasingly uncomfortable since the jazz music started and who had for several minutes already been begging me to let her leave.

"We promised we wouldn't get you in trouble, Marcelle. Why do you want to leave?"

"Just because," she replied stubbornly, a violent rage gradually coming over her.

All at once, to everyone's horror, Simone dropped to the floor, clutching her little black cat Margaret in her hands. A convulsion shook her harder and harder. Clearly the sugar buzz had kicked in! Her clothes were in disarray and her bum was in the air and she shook as if she were having an epileptic fit. She rolled around at the feet of the boy who had lost the bet, mumbling almost inarticulately.

"Everyone squirt me...squirt me with the squirt guns! Squirt my kitty too!" She repeated this over and over, as if she were dying of thirst.

Marcelle gaped at this spectacle. She blushed again, her face turning bright red. She scooped up Coco and held him close, offering him to me to give him a few strokes as tears streamed down her face. I gave her a kiss on the cheek, and then she glided across the room to a large antique bridal wardrobe that sat in the ccorner. After whispering a few words to Simone, she opened the door of the wardrobe and then shut herself inside with her cat and one of the squirtguns, trying to avoid the chaos outside. We knocked on the door but she begged to be left in peace.

At this point we were all quite hyperactive from the sugary drinks and snacks, and a general chaos ensued. The girls were still dancing in a frenzy as the boys took turns squirting them with the squirtguns, getting their clothes and the furniture in the room all soaked. Some of the girls were slamming against the wardrobe in their dancing frenzy. All at once, something incredible happened. We noticed water leaking from under the wardrobe door, first in a trickle and then in a stream. Marcelle was sobbing from inside the wardrobe, but clearly had been squirting her own squirtgun from inside with such violent frequency that all the water she had squirted was leaking out!

Outside the wardrobe, the scene continued to degenerate. Several of the dancing girls and boys had gotten the hiccups, which occasionally interrupted their demented laughter. In the chaos I had slipped on a puddle of squirtgun water and scraped my head. Inside the wardrobe, poor Marcelle was still sobbing and we could hear Coco's confused mewling issuing from inside.

Half an hour into the bedlam, it occurred to me that Marcelle might actually be stuck inside the wardrobe and that I should let her out. The unhappy girl was in a dreadful state, and her poor cat looked wet and miserable and exhausted. Marcelle was shivering and trembling feverishly. Upon the sight of me, she displayed a sickly but violent terror. After all, I was pale and smeared in blood with my clothes soaked and askew, a liberty cap perched on my head at a madcap angle. A few other merry-makers had also slipped and fallen and bore cuts and bruises like my own, and all of us were soaked from our demented indoor squirtgun fight. As I regained my senses it dawned on me that Simone's mother was going to be very unhappy indeed with the state of things. As this sobering thought was taking hold, Marcelle let out an inhuman shriek at the chaotic scene. At the sound of this I looked over to Simone, who had somehow fallen to the floor in a contented slumber, curled up with her cat in her lap. Neither of them stirred at the sound. Simone was quietly snoring, with a smile on her face, and a contented purr emanated from her black cat, who was completely soaked.

Marcelle, staggering across the room wildly with shrieks and snarls, looked at me fiercely, like a wild animal. She flinched as if I were a hideous ghost in a nightmare before collapsing with a series of howls that grew more and more inhuman.

Astonishingly, this litany finally brought me to my senses. At the sound of Marcelle's shrieks, the grown-ups had decided to check in on what we were up to. For some reason it never occurred to me to flee the scene or conceal the chaos. I resolutely strode to the door and flung it open. You can imagine the dismay of our elders as they surveyed the scene. A litany of threats descended from them as they assessed the damage. We were threatened with spankings and groundings and detentions and even in a few cases with disinheritance if we failed to change our ways. Our friends themselves began sobbing and howling with a ferocity just short of what had been displayed by poor Marcelle. They sounded as if they had been set afire as living torches. Simone and I tried to keep straight faces, but we found ourselves perversely amused by all the chaos.

And yet what an atrocity! It seemed as if nothing could terminate the tragicomic frenzy of our lunatic friends. Marcelle, still weeping, inarticulately banged her fists against the door of the wardrobe, and her agonizing shrieks of pain expressed unbearable terror and moral suffering. She was inconsolable, even trying to scratch and bite her mother as she attempted to embrace her and calm her down.

Indeed, by bursting in, the parents had managed to wipe out the last shreds of reason, and in the end the police had to be called, bringing the unwelcome attention of the neighbors as well. One thing was sure: we were definitely in trouble!

Chapter Three
Marcelle's Smell

My own parents had not turned up that evening with the pack. Nevertheless, I thought it would be wise to make myself scarce to elude the wrath of my father, who was the epitome of a senile Catholic general. I entered our house by the back door and grabbed enough money from my piggy bank to live on for awhile. Since I was sure they would currently be searching for me, I decided to take a quick bath in the last place I thought they would look--my father's bedroom. Finally by around 10pm I was out in the open country, having left a note on the table: "I beseech you not to look for me or send the police out looking for me for I have brought along two squirtguns--one for myself and one for whoever finds me. So if anyone confronts me then both of us will end up getting soaked!"

I've never had any aptitude for making a statement, and on this occasion in particular I only wished to keep my family at bay, for they hated scandal. Still, having written this note with the greatest levity and not without laughter, I thought it prudent to pack a pair of squirtguns for my exile.

I walked along the shore all night, but without getting very far from X because of all the windings of the coast. I found myself trying to soothe a violent agitation within myself, one filled with spectral visions of Simone and Marcelle and Margaret and Coco. Little by little I found myself succumbing to despair at the thought of avoiding them, even temporarily. But in my weariness I realized that my life had to have some meaning all the same, and it would only have this meaning if certain desirable events were made to occur. I finally accepted being so extraordinarily haunted by even the very names Simone and Marcelle. Since it was so use laughing, I could only keep going by accepting or imagining a phantasmic compromise that would confusedly link my most disconcerting moves to theirs.

During the days I slept in the forest. At nightfall I went to Simone's place, passing through the garden by climbing the wall. Simone's bedroom was lit, and I could see the silhouette of Margaret through the window, perched on the sill. I cast some pebbles against the window and Margaret mewed, getting Simone's attention. A few seconds later she came down and we headed to the beach almost wordlessly. We were thrilled to see each other again. It was dark, and I occasionally gave her timid black cat a stroke to keep up her morale. We reached a nice stretch of the beach and she sat down and I stretched out at her feet. I soon felt that I couldn't keep back my sobs and I began to quietly cry for a long time on the sand.

"What's wrong?" asked Simone. She gave me a playful kick, striking one of the squirtguns in my pocket which gave us both a start. We laughed upon realizing what she had done and then sat back down.

That evening we lay down in the sand and cuddled all night, something we had never done before.

This is how I lived for several days. Simone and I would come home late at night and sleep in her room, where I would stay locked in until the following night. Simone would secretly bring me trays of food. Her mother, having no authority over her (the day of the scandal she had simply gone for a walk as soon as she heard the shrieks) accepted the situation without trying to fathom the mystery. As for the servants, money had for some time been ensuring their loyalty to Simone.

In fact it was the servants who told us the ultimate fate of Marcelle. They told us of her confinement to a sanitarium, and even the sanitarium's name and location. From the very first day all we did was worry about Marcelle's condition. Her madness, her loneliness, the possibility of reaching her and helping her and Coco escape. One day when attempting to cuddle with Simone in her bed, she brusquely slipped away.

"You're totally insane, little man," she told me. "I'm not interested in cuddling right now. We've got to save Marcelle!"

"What are you talking about?" I asked, disappointed but not disagreeing.

She came back affectionately and said in a gentle dreamy voice:

"Listen. We've got to reach her and break her out. We'll give her one of your squirtguns and she won't be able to help squirting at the sight of us!"

We both imagined how nice it would be to be squirted by Marcelle, and soon the two of us were rolling around and engaging in a quiet squirtgun battle in her bedroom. She squirted me in the crotch, making it look as if I had wet myself. I retaliated by emptying my squirtgun all over her face and hair. Once we were both soaked, we settled back down in the wet linen of her sheets.

"You smell like Marcelle," she observed. Everything smelled like Marcelle, especially the wet linen sheets. We settled into a calm, silently planning our next moves in our heads.

Obviously Simone and I were sometimes taken with a violent desire to wrestle around and tickle each other. But we no longer thought it could be done without Marcelle, whose piercing cries kept grating our ears, for they were linked to our most violent desires. Thus it was that our playful times kept changing into a nightmare. Marcelle's smile, her freshness, her sobs, the sense of shame that made her blush, and beyond all the tragic delirium which made her lock herself in the wardrobe with a squirtgun--all these things warped our desires, so that they endlessly tormented us. Simone, whose conduct during the scandal had been even naughtier than ever (upon awakening she continued laughing and squirting her squirtgun even after the adults had entered)--Simone could not forget the joy provoked by her own brazenness and by Marcelle's howls had been more powerful than anything she had been able to imagine before. And even Margaret the cat would not be fully comfortable with me unless Marcelle's ghost, raging, reddening, frenzied, came to make her brazenness overwhelming and far-reaching, as if this extreme behavior were to render everything generally dreadful and infamous.

At any rate, the swampy pleasures I experienced playing with Simone and her little cat Margaret symbolized nothing more for me now than the profound subterranean empire of a Marcelle who was tormented in prison and at the mercy of nightmares. Three was one thing I understood--the utter joy that underlied the sobs and shrieks that society's expectations had forced to the surface.

And Simone, for her part, no longer enjoyed being sprayed in the face with my squirtgun without first seeing it soak Marcelle's own face and clothing.

"You could spray her in her reddened blushing face with your squirtgun," she confided to me, all the while petting her kitty--"Until the water sizzles from the heat!"

Chapter Four
A Sunspot

Other girls and boys no longer interested us. All we could think of was Marcelle. Finally one evening, after getting the particular details of her incarceration, I pulled on a rugged pair of corduroy pants and we took our bicycles and rode off to the sanitarium where our friend was confined. In less than an hour we had ridden twenty kilometers to the grounds of the mental hospital, a sort of castle within a walled park on a lonely cliff overlooking the sea. We had learned that Marcelle was in Room 8, but obviously we would have to figure out a way into the building to find her. All we could hope to do would be to climb into her window after sawing through the bars, but we had no idea how to identify her window among the thirty others. We had climbed the wall and were now in the park, amongst the trees whose limbs were buffeted by violent gusts of wind, when we spotted a second-story window opening and a shadow holding a sheet and fastening it to the bars. The sheet flapped in the gusts of winds, and the window was shut before we could recognize the shadow.

It is hard to imagine the harrowing racket that vast white sheet had made flapping about during the squall. It was louder than the waves crashing against the shore and the wind in the trees. That was the first time I saw Simone racked by anything but her own naughty mischief: she huddled against me with a beating heart and gaped at the phantasmic sheet as though dementia itself had struck its colors in the midst of this castle of madness.

We were motionless, Simone cowering in my arms, when all at once the wind scattered the clouds, and the moon with a revealing clarity shone on a sight so bizarre and excruciating for us that Simone gave out a violent sob. At the center of the sheet flapping around in the wind was a broad wet stain that glowed in the moonlight.

A few seconds later, new dark clouds plunged the world into darkness again, but I stayed on my feet, suffocating, feeling my hair blowing in the breeze and weeping wretchedly along with Simone, who had collapsed on the ground. For the first time, her body was wracked with enormous childlike sobs.

It was our poor friend, no doubt about it. It was Marcelle who had opened taht window, Marcelle who had tied the wet sheet, that signal of distress, to the bars of her cell. She had obviously snuck in a squirtgun and wet the sheets in a frenzy of mischief, and it was then that we saw her hang the sheet from the window to let it dry. Simone and I imagined the fragrant smell of the wet linen as we contemplated our next moves.

I was at a loss for what to do next in that faux-palatial courtyard looking up at the barred windows. I walked around the building, leaving Simone sprawled out on the ground. I had no practical goal, I just wanted to get some air. But then on the far side of the chateau I stumbled across an unbarred open window on the ground floor. I felt for the water pistol in the pocket of my corduroy pants and entered cautiously. The window led to a very ordinary parlor. An electric flashlight helped me navigate my way to an antechamber and then to a stairway. I could not distinuish anything, I did not get anywhere. The rooms were not numbered. Besides, I was unable to understand anything, temporarily enthralled.

My corduroy trousers were swishing loudly in the darkness. Although the swishing sound was only slightly louder than my breathing, I grew paranoid about this and had the idea that I should discard them to make my exploration more stealthy. I stripped them off, leaving me clad in my shirt and boxers and shoes. With a flashlight in my left hand and the water pistol in my right hand, I wandered aimlessly, haphazardly. A rustle made me extinguish my light quickly. I stood motionless, listening to the sound of my own breathing. Long, anxious minutes passed by without any sound but the sound of my own breath, so I flashed my light back on, but a faint cry sent me fleeing so swiftly away that I forgot my corduroy trousers on the chair.

I sensed I was being followed, so I hurriedly climbed out through the window and hid in a garden lane. But no sooner had I turned to observe what might be happening in the chateau than I spied a woman in the window frame. She jumped into the park as I had done and ran off toward a thorn bush.

Nothing was more bizarre for me in those thrilling moments than being pantsless in the wind on the path of that unknown garden. It was as if I had left the earth, especially since the howling wind was as violent as ever, but warm enough to suggest a brutal entreaty. I did not know what to do with my water pistol, which was still in my hand, since I no longer had any pockets. By charging after the woman, who had run past me unrecognized, she would logically fear that I was trying to hunt her down to squirt her. THe roar of the storm, the raging of the trees, and the wet sheet also helped to prevent me from discerning anything distinct in my will or gestures.

All at once I stopped, out of breath. I had reached the bushes where the woman had disappeared. Inflamed by my water pistol, I began looking about when sudden it seemed as though reality itself were being torn to pieces. I felt a hand brush against my knee, and when I turned around and squirted my pistol directly into the face of what turned out to be my wonderful Simone, who was standing in her slip. She sputtered and laughed, and I was swept up by a thrill as violent as the storm. My teeth chattered and I shivered uncontrollably, firing a few squirts of my pistol in the direction of the chateau.

Drunk and limp, Simone and I had fled from one another and raced across the park like a pair of dogs. The storm was too violent now for our footsteps to wake any of the sleepers in the chateau, even if they heard them inside. But when we instinctively looked up at Marcelle's window above the sheet slamming in the wind, we could see that the wind had carried some of the water from my water pistol to leave a star-shaped splash on one of the panes. The windowshook, opened, and the shadow appeared again.

Dumbstruck, as though about to see Marcelle slip and fall to the floor in the windowframe, we remained standing under the nearly motionless apparition. Because of the frious wind, we couldn't call out to her to make ourselves heard even if we wanted to.

"Where is your dress?" I asked Simone an instant later. She said she had been looking for me and, unable to track me down, she finally went inside the chateau. But before entering she had stripped down to her slip to be more stealthy. And when she had come back out after me, afraid she was being chased, she found that the strong winds had blown her dress away. Meanwhile, she kept observing Marcelle and it never occurred to her to ask where my corduroy pants had gone.

The girl in the window disappeared. A moment that seemed immense crept by. She finally switched on the light in her room, then came back to breathe the open air and gaze at the ocean. Her sleek, pallid hair was caught in the wind. We could just make out her features. Her face was the same, but now there was something wild in her eyes, something restless, in contrast to the still childlike simplicity of her features. She looked like a young girl.

When she finally caught sight of us, the surprise seemed to restore life to her face. She called, but we couldn't hear what she said. We beckoned. She blushed bright red. Simone, almost weeping, blew her a kiss, to witch she responded without smiling. Simone reached down and held her little ginger cat Coco to the window. Apparently her water gun wasn't the only thing she had smuggled into the asylum. She stroked her kitty as she waved to us, and I wished we had been able to bring along Margaret and Pierre for this all-too-brief, remote reunion.

Soon some invisble monstrosity seemed to be yanking Marcelle away from the bars of her cell, though her left hand clutched them with all her might. We saw her tumble back into delirium. And all that remained before us was an empty glowing window, a rectangle of light showing our aching eyes a world composed of lightning and dawn.

Chapter Five
A Trickle of Blood

Squirt guns are deeply associated for me with saltpeter and the smell of madeleines; and lightning, I don't know why, with an antique chamber pot of unglazed earthenware, lying abandoned one rainy autumn day on the zinc roof of a provincial wash house. Since that first night at the sanitarium, those wrenching images were closely knit, in the furthest reaches of my mind, with the drawn and dismal expression I sometimes caught on Marcelle's face. But then, this dreadful landscape of my imagination was suddenly flooded with a stream of light and a trickle of water, for Marcelle could only truly embrace her mischievous side with squirts from a water pistol, streams of limpid water at first jerky and violent like hiccups and then free and relaxed and coinciding with an outburst of astonishing happiness followed by placid tranquility. It is not astonishing that the most bleak and leprous aspects of dreams are merely urgings in that direction, stubbornly waiting for total ecstasy, like the vision of that glowing rectangular hole, the empty window, for example, at the very moment when Marcelle lay sprawled out on her floor, endlessly inundating it.

But that day, in the rainless storm, Simone and I, with my trousers and her dress lost and abandoned, were forced to leave the chateau, fleeing like animals through the hostile darkness, imaginations haunted by the wretchedness and melancholy that was bound to take hold of Marcelle again, making the poor girl almost an embodiment of the fury and terror that kept driving our bodies to endless mischief. We soon found our bicycles and we laughed at the absurd sight of ourselves navigating these two wheeled machines in our absurd states, with me lacking trousers and her in her slip. We pedalled rapidly, without laughing or talking, strangely satisfied with our mutual presences, akin in our weariness and absurdity.

Yet we were both literally perishing of fatigue. In the middle of a slope, Simone stopped her bike, saying she had the shivers. Our faces, backs, and legs were covered in sweat from our exertions. Simone's teeth were chattering. I offered her the sleeve of my pullover to wipe the sweat from her forearms, which gave off an odor recalling sickbeds and hospital wards. Little by little she came around to a more bearable state, and she gave me a chaste kiss on the cheek in thanks for the gesture.

I was still extremely agitated. We had ten more kilometers to bike, and in the state we were in we obviously needed to reach X by dawn. I could barely keep my bicycle upright, and I despaired of ever reaching the end of this ride, which seemed impossible. We had abandoned the real world, the world where people biked fully clothed in better weather, and the time elapsing since then was already so remote as to seem unreachable. Our personal hallucinations now developed as boundlessly as erhaps the total nightmare of human society, for instance, with earth, sky, and atmosphere.

The sight of Simone pedalling her bicycle in her slip made me laugh. The rapid whirling of the dusty tire reminded me of the spinning dance she did the day Marcelle locked herself in the wardrobe as well as the way her little kitty Margaret would stand on her hind feet and spin around when offered a treat. I thought of poor Pierre the rooster as well, who had been unable to accompany us on this adventure. He would have stirred at the sight and let out a mighty cock-a-doodle-doo! The wind had died down somewhat and part of the starry sky was visible. It struck me in a moment of profound sadness that someday Simone and I might pass out of the last bits of our childhoods that we were clinging to and the universe of our playful jaunts would be replaced by the pure stars, the cold and uncaring beacons of responsibility that would guide the rest of the decisions in our life, with no time for juvenile bliss and carefree responsibility. What awaited us but the responsibilities of parenthood, jobs, financial responsibilities? I cast my eyes down to the dusty road directly in front of us, trying to ignore the pole star above that would soon draw me into the shackles of maturity.

Yet these images were of course tied to the contradiction of the absolute state of my exhaustion and the fact that I was madly pedalling in my underpants in the midst of a terrible tempest. Simone was riding in front of me and having her own issues navigating the cold and wind, yet I felt I could see her eyes aglow in the darkness, peering back constantly and laughing at the absurd sight of me. Like myself, she had not fully drained herself of the tempest of mischief that resided within her very soul. Suddenly the distraction caught up to her and she found herself spilling from the bike and hurled onto an embankment with an awful scraping of the steel upon the pebbles, letting out a piercing shriek.

I found her inert, her head hanging down, a thin trickle of blood running from the corner of her mouth. Horrified to the limit of my strength, I pulled up one arm, but it fell back inert. I threw myself upon her apparently lifeless body, trembling with fear, and as I clutched it in an embrace I was overcome with bloody spasms, drooling, my teeth bared like a mad dog. Was this the price we had paid for our afternoon of squirtgun delights? Was this the punishment that would forever bar us from once more crossing the bridge to our fantastical childhood kingdom, our own Terabithia?

Meanwhile, Simone was slowly coming to. Her arm touched me in a reflexive movement and I quickly returned from the torpor that had overwhelmed me when I believed that I was cradling a corpse. No injury or bruise marked her body, still clad in her long slip, which was unripped and covered her modestly. I took her in my arms and carried her down the road, heedless of my fatigue. I hurried as fast as I could since dawn was just breaking. Only a superhuman effort allowed me to reach the villa and happily my marvelous friend into her very own bed.

Sweat was dripping from my face and all over my body, my eyes were bloody and swollen, my ears rang, my teeth chattered, and my heart was pounding away in my chest and at my temples. But since I had just rescued my best friend in the world, and since I thought we would soon be seeing Marcelle again, I lay next to Simone's body as I was, dusty and exhausted, and soon drifted off into vague nightmares.

Chapter Six
Simone

One of the most peaceful eras in my life was the period following Simone's accident, which had only left her ill. Whenever her mother came I would step into the bathroom, taking the opportunity to pee or wash myself. The first time her mother tried to enter, she was immediately stopped by her daughter.

"Don't go in there, Mother," she would say jokingly. "There might be a boy in there!"

Each time, however, her mother was dismissed before long and I would take my place once again perched in the chair next to her sickbed. I would suck on lollipops and read her the funny pages aloud from the newspapers. When Simone needed to go to the bathroom, I would help her from the bed and walk her over to the water closet. She was very weak and we were unable to dance and frolic, but nevertheless we soon found an activity that soothed our need for mischief and which was low energy enough for her to practice during her convalescence. Simone delighted in having me fetch eggs and then assist her in throwing these eggs into the toilet bowl. We conducted a variety of experiments, tossing in hard-boiled eggs which would sink as well as some with shells sucked out to various degrees to obtain varying degrees of immersion. We placed bets on which eggs would sink or float. She would gaze at the eggs for a long time, sometimes sitting on the toilet bowl and clucking as if she had laid them herself, and then we would flush the toilet and watch them swirl away. Poor Pierre would have been horrified at the sight!

Another game was to crack an egg on the bidet and then squirt it with our squirt guns until the yellow yolk ran down the drain. We would jokingly dare each other to eat the eggs we had treated in this manner. We promised ourselves to repeat this game with Marcelle at first opportunity, and it made us laugh to imagine her reaction.

At that time we imagined Marcelle placed in the bath tub full of fresh eggs, fully clothed and shod. She would squirt her water pistol as she rolled around in the tub, crushing the raw eggs. Simone also daydreamed about sitting Marcelle fully clothed on the stool in the bathroom and menacing her with a water pistol. Simone would be clad in her full slip but soaked to the skin, like the night we saw Marcelle at the asylum. I would squirt Marcelle with my water pistol and then let the water from the tip drip onto her face. At the same time, Simone would pour a jar of creme fraiche into Marcelle's lap and then both of us would squirt our water guns on Marcelle at the same time. At the end we'd allow Marcelle her own water pistol to avenge herself on her tormentors and the three of us would all laugh heartily at the mischief.

It was after such dreams that Simone would ask me to bed her down on blankets by the toilet and she would rest her head on the rim of the clean bowl and fix her wide eyes on the white eggs. I would crouch down next to her so we could both look at the eggs up close. The gulping gurgle of the flushing water always amused Simone, making her forget her obsessions and restoring her high spirits.

At last one day at six in the evening, when the oblique sunshine was shining through the bathroom window, a half-sucked egg was suddenly invaded by the water and after filling up with a bizarre gurgling noise, it was suddenly shipwrecked before our very eyes. Simone treated this occurrence with almost religious significance, grasping my hand tightly. With her other hand she put her finger on my eyelid, mimicking the slurping sound the egg had made. She then seized her water pistol, which she shot furiously at the remaining eggs bobbing in the bowl with vigor and satisfaction.

As of now she could be regarded as cured, and she demonstrated her joy by speaking to me at length of many intimate things, mostly of her enthusiasm for eggs. Simone loved eggs and all that they symbolize. She loved to eat eggs prepared in any style. She loved eggs fried, poached, scrambled, hard boiled, basted, over easy, over hard, baked and deviled. She loved egg salads and frittatas and quiches and omelets. Pickled eggs with their pungent brine. Egg custards, frozen or baked. Scotch eggs with their crust of sausage and bread crumbs. The simple joys of a perfect egg mayonnaise. Eggs coddled, eggs shirred, eggs baked into pies. The kosher delights promised by eyerlekh and matzah brei and haminados. Sweet dishes like Kaiserschmarrn, fishy dishes like kedgeree. Meringues and tarts and fios de ovos. Cloying pleasures such as kogel mogel and aletria and akok. Exotic treats from faraway lands: shakshouka and silog and tajine and telur gulung and khai yat sai and mirza-qasemi. New world creations such as huevos rancheros. The bacony goodness promised by Flæskeæggekage, a dish avoided by the mussulman and turk who prefer their Çılbır and menemen. And of course the wonders of the east such as the century egg and tamagoyaki and egg drop soup. Not to mention the potable treats containing eggs. She spoke of swilling bombardinos and egg nogs and egg creams and rompope and tamagozake and teh talua and waxed rhapsodic about how good for the soul it is to sit in the shadow of the Duomo Milano with a freshly made uovo sbattuto.

Simone ruminated on how much an egg resembled a calf's eye, with the white of the egg looking like the white of the eye and the yolk resembling the eyeball. The eye, she insisted, was egg-shaped. She asked me to promise that when we went outdoors we could play a game where we flung eggs into the air so I could shoot them with my water pistol, and when I shied away from this she insisted, trying to reason me into it. She engaged in wordplay, saying how much a broken egg was similar to a broken eye, and her arguments became more and more unreasonable, a newfound obsessive delirium to replace her sick fevers.

She added that for her the arcing of the water from a water pistol in the sunlight was like a ray of light. She observed how two eggs sitting next to each other greatly resembled someone's pale bottom. We agreed that she should ask her mother to prepare some soft-boiled eggs for her without shells, intended for further play in the toilet bowl. Her kitty Margaret, hearing her excitement, had entered the room and was purring and rubbing against my leg, happy that her mistress had perked up so noticeably. A storm began brewing little by little in my innermost depth. I was reflecting more and more.

It is fair to say that the room of a bedridden invalid is just the right place to gradually rediscover childhood mischief. We continued dunking eggs in the toilet, and when her mother entered with the soft boiled eggs Simone had ordered I didn't even turn around. We continued playing with the toilet eggs contentedly. Nor was I disturbed when I recognized her mother's voice. But since she remained and I was so rapt by watching the eggs bobbing up and down, I thought of taking a seat on the toilet in hopes that her mother would be shamed into turning around and leaving me for my own private pursuits. When she finally decided to walk out and vainly ponder over her dismay elsewhere in the house, night was already gathering and we switched on the bathroom light. Simone settled on the toilet seat and we each ate one of the five hot eggs with some salt. The remaining three we slowly plopped into the toilet bowl. We observed as they sank into the water with a sizzle, cooling on contact, before flushing the bowl and watching them swirl down the drain, gradually losing their shape in the cyclone.

But I ought to say that nothing of the sort ever happened again, and with one exception, eggs never even came up in our conversations. Nevertheless, if we happened to notice one or more, we could not help but exchanging a glance and mutually blushing over our childish obsessions with all things ovular, our eyes meeting in murky and silent interrogation.

At any rate, as it shall be shown by the end of this tale, this interrogation would not remain without an answer indefinitely, and above all this unexpected answer was necessary for measuring the immense nature of the void that gaped before us, without our knowledge, during our interminable experimentation with eggs.

Chapter Seven
Marcelle

Out of shared modesty, Simone and I had always avoided discussing the most important objects of our obsessions. That is why the word "egg" was dropped from our vocabulary, and we never spoke directly about our friendship or how much Marcelle meant to us. We spent all of Simone's illness in her bedroom, eagerly awaiting the day we could go back to Marcelle, like children waiting for the end of the school day. So all we talked about was the day that we could return to the asylum. I had prepared a small cord, a thick knotted rope, and a hacksaw, all of which Simone examined with great interest, examining every knot and section of the rope attentively. I also managed to find the bicycles, which I had hidden the day of the accident in a thicket, and I carefully oiled the various gears and sprockets to make them mechanically fit. I then attached a pair of toe-clips to my own bicycle so that one of the girls could sit on the back of my bike. Nothing could be easier, at least for the time being, than to have Marcelle living in Simone's bedroom secretly in the way I had done. We would simply have to share the floor.

But a good six weeks passed before Simone was well enough to pedal to the sanitarium. Like the previous occasiona, we left at night. In fact, I still remained out of sight during the day, and this time there was every reason for staying inconspicuous. I was in a hurry to arrive at the asylum, which I dimly regarded as a sort of "haunted castle" because of the memory of the phantom sheet and the thought of all the lunatics in a big scary place at night. But now, to my surprise, even though I was uncomfortable anywhere in the world, I felt in the depths of my soul as if I were going home. And I still felt that way when we jumped over the park wall and saw the enormous building ahead beyond the trees. Only Marcelle's window was still lit up and open. Taking some pebbles from the ground, we threw them into her chamber, which quickly summoned her. She recognized us and we put our fingers on our lips to encourage her to be quiet, holding up the knotted rope so that she understood what we were doing this time. I tossed the cord up to her, tied around the end of a rock, and she threw it back to me after looping it around one of the bars of her cell. I was able to scramble quickly to the top.

Marcelle flinched when I tried to kiss her on the cheek. She watched attentively as I started filing away at one of the bars. Since she was only wearing her bathrobe, I told her to get dressed so that she could come with us. I continued filing, sweating from my efforts. Marcelle came back dressed in a modest skirt and a sweater with black, white, and red checks. After stepping into flat comfortable shoes, she came over to the window and sat down close to me, her face bearing an expression of wordless joy that she was being rescued.

"Now we can get married, can't we?" she finally said, apparently joking. "It's very bad here, we suffer..."

At that point I felt so devoted to the task that I was nearly ready to take her joke for honest sentiment and I imagined us being devoted to each other for the rest of our lives, which made me redouble my efforts.

After long work, I was able to cut through the rusty bar. I pulled it aside with all my strength, which left just enough space for her to squeeze her thin body through, with her little cat Coco in her arms. She did so, and I helped her descend the rope, climbing down underneath. Reaching the ground, she gave me a big hug and a kiss on the cheek. Simone, her face wet with tears, also embraced her and kissed her face before picking up Coco and burying her face in her ginger fur.

However, it soon became apparent to Simone and I that Marcelle actually grasped little of the situation and was completely befuddled, as all the miserable time in the asylum had degraded her sense of reality. Marcelle smiled and mused at how aghast the director of the "haunted castle" would be at seeing her strolling through the grounds with her husband. She also seemed scarcely aware of Simone's existence. At times she was startled by her, mistaking her for a wolf because of her black hair and her silent demeanor. Nonetheless, when I spoke to Marcelle about the "haunted castle", she did not ask me to explain. She understood that this was the building where she had been so cruelly confined. And whenever she thought about it, terror pulled her away from me as though she had seen ghosts in the trees. I watched her uneasily, and since my face was already hard and somber, she found me a bit frightening as well. At almost the same instant, she asked me to protect her when the Cardinal returned.

We were resting in the moonlight by the edge of a forest. We wanted to take a break during our return trip and we especially wanted to embrace and comfort each other for morale and to enjoy Marcelle's presence.

"But who is the Cardinal?" Simone asked at last.

"The man who locked me in the wardrobe," replied Marcelle.

"But why is he a cardinal?" I asked.

She replied: "Because he is the priest of the guillotine."

I now recalled Marcelle's terrible fear when she left the wardrobe, and particularly two details. I had been wearing a leftover carnival novelty had, a Jacobine liberty cap; furthermore, because of my mild injury, I had blood streaming down my face.

Thus, in her terror, Marcelle confused a cardinal, a priest of the guillotine, wth the blood smeared executioner wearing a liberty cap: a bizarre overlapping of her piety and abomination for priests explained her confusion. This has remained attached to both my conscious reality and the horror continually aroused by the compulsion of my actions.

Chapter Eight
The Open Eyes of the Madwoman

For a moment, I was completely helpless after this unexpected discovery, and so was Simone. Marcelle was now half asleep on the ground and we didn't know what to do. Coco was mewling confusedly between her legs, not used to being outdoors and exposed, her fur looking grey in the moonlight. The cat seemed like an extraordinary hallucination in a world so fragile that a gust of breath might have changed us into light. We didn't dare move, and all we desired was for that unreal immobility to last as long as possible, and for Marcelle to fall sound asleep.

My mind reeled in an exhausting dizziness, and I know not what would have happened if Simone, whose worried gaze glanced anxiously between me and Coco, had not made a sudden, gentle movement. She took out her water pistol, which she had tucked away in a hidden pocket of her dress, and squirted herself in the face to wake herself up. I took out the water pistol from my own pocket and did the same as Marcelle slumbered and Coco circled around on her lap.

I stretched out in the grass, my head on a big flat rock and my eyes staring straight up at the Milky Way, that cloudy mess spreading across the open crack at the summit of the sky, apparently made of ammoniacal vapors shining in the immensity (in the empty void where they burst forth like my rooster Pierre crowing to break the total silence). It reminded me of a broken egg, a broken eye, or my own dazzled skull weighing down the rock, bouncing symmetrical images back to infinity. The thought of a rooster's nauseating crow coincided with my own life, that is to say, now, the Cardinal, because of the crack, the red color, the discordant shrieks given off by poor Marcelle in the wardrobe, and how one cuts the throats of roosters (though I would never do so to my pet rooster Pierre, of course.)

To others, the universe seems decent because decent people have gelded eyes. They fear mischief. They are never frightened by the crowing of a rooster or when strolling under a starry sky. In general people savor the pleasures of mischief only on condition that they be juvenile diversions that are soon grown out of.

But as of then, no doubt existed for me. I did not care for mere juvenile diversions. I only cared for what is classified as "delinquent". On the other hand, I was not even satisfied with the usual delinquency because the only thing it dirties is delinquency itself, while, in some manner or other, anything sublime and perfectly pure is left intact by it. My kind of delinquency soils not only my body and my thoughts but also anything I conceive in its course, that is to say, the vast starry universe which merely serves as a backdrop.

I associate the moon with change, with deviance, with the ebb and flow for the desire to be mischievous that periodically fills our souls.

I loved Marcelle without mourning her. If anything happened to her, then it was my fault. If I had nightmares, if I sometimes looked myself up in a cellar for hours at a time in imitation of her confinement, precisely because I was thinking of Marcelle, I would nonetheless be prepared to start all over again, for instance, by pulling her hair or teasing poor Coco until he cried out. But since her sanity is damaged, I have nothing left but certain catastrophes that bring me to her at times when I least expect it. Otherwise, I cannot possibly perceive the least kinship now between the mad girl and myself, which makes most of my days inevitably dreary.

I will merely report here that Marcelle locked herself in the wardrobe after a dreadful incident. She recognized the huge bridal wardrobe, and her teeth started chattering. She instantly realized upon looking at me that I was the man she called the Cardinal, and when she began shrieking, there was no other wayfor me to stop that desperate howling than to leave the room. By the time Simone and I returned, she had locked herself inside the wardrobe with Coco.

I knocked on the door of the wardrobe but she refused to come out. Simone and I grabbed our water pistols in frustration and began squirting each other to pass the time, but Marcelle remained firmly inside the wardrobe. It was frustrating and painful for both of us, but we were somehow glad because it was painful. Marcelle had become a total stranger to us, and in fact so had Simone at that moment. I would not even have been astonished if someone told me that it was I who was locked inside the wardrobe, so alien were these events to me. I observed Simone, and as I precisely recall, my only pleasure was in the goofy way she looked all soaking wet, for the fact that Marcelle was locked away was very irritating to her, as though she could not bear the thought that this creature, so similar to her, would so idiotically lock herself up once again in captivity after having been freed with so much effort on our parts. The thought of her wide open terrified eyes as she cowered inside were more irritating than anything else. The silence from inside was infurating. We were perfectly calm, all three of us, and that was the most hopeless part of it. Coco had even ceased his mewling for the time being. Any boredom in the world is linked, for me, to that moment and, above all, to an obstacle as ridiculous as madness. But that won't prevent me from thinking back to that time with no revulsion and even with a sense of complicity. Basically, the very boringness made everything even more absurd, and thus Marcelle was closer to me mad than in her relatively sane though absurd existence.

As for the fact that Simone dared to continue squirting me with her squirtgun, whether in boredom or at worst in irritation, it mainly goes to prove how impossible it was for us to understand what was happening. And of course it is no more understandable today than back then. Simone, being truly incapable of conceiving madness such as one normally considers it, was frightened and furious, but in no way awestruck. Marcelle belonged to us so deeply in our isolation that we could not see her as just another mad girl. Nothing about her state could be measured by a common standard, and the contradictory impulses overtaking us in this circumstance neutralized one another, leaving us feeling blind and paralyzed and very remote from anything we touched, in a world where gestures have no carrying power, like voices in the soundless void of outer space.

Chapter Nine
Mischievous Animals

To at least delay our inevitable punishment, we left a note on the wardrobe regarding the sorry state of our friend inside and immediately took off for Spain, where Simone was counting on our disappearing with the help of a fabulously rich Englishman, who had offered to support her and would be more likely than anyone else to show interest in our plight. We brought along Simone's little cat Margaret and my rooster Pierre as well as company for this next adventure.

The villa was abandoned in the middle of the night. We had no trouble stealing a boat, reaching an obscure point on the coast of Spain, and burning the craft with the aid of two drums of gasoline from the barn of the chicken farm we had taken along as a precautionary measure. Simone left me concealed in the wood with Pierre during the dayand went to look for the Englishman in San Sebastian. She returned at nightfall, driving a magnificent automobile with suitcases full of linen and rich clothing.

Simone said that Sir Edmond would be joining us in Madrid, and all day long he had been plying her with the most detailed questions about Marcelle's madness, making her draw diagrams and sketches. Finally he had told a servent to buy a wax mannequin with a blonde wig. He laid the mannequin out on the floor and asked Simone to squirt it in the face with her water pistol, on the open eyes, in the same position as she had squirted Marcelle in her near-catatonia in our first impassioned encounter in the mud. During all that time, Sir Edmond merely stood to the side with both hands in his pockets and watched.

However, there had been a great change in Simone after Marcelle's madness. She kept staring into space all the time, looking as if she belonged somewhere else besides the terrestrial world, where nearly everything bored her. Or if she was still attached to this world, then purely by way of her fits of laughter, which were rare but incomparably more violent than before. These fits were as different from normal chuckles and guffaws as, say, the mirth of savage African tribesmen from that of staid Occidental missionaries. In fact, though the savages may somtimes laugh as modestly as the missionaries, they also have long lasting jags with all parts of the body inviolent release, and they go whirling crazily like dervishes, flailing their arms about wildly, shaking their bellies and necks and chests, and chortling and gulping horribly. As for Simone, she would first open uncertain eyes upon some bizarre and dismal sight.

For example, Sir Edmond had a cramped, windowless pigsty, where one day he locked up a petite and scrumptious housemaid who bore a passing resemblance to our poor Marcelle. Unused to being amongst the livestock, she collapsed in a pool of liquid manure under the bellies of the grunting swine. Once the door was shut, Simone had me squirt her with my water pistol while the poor woman sat in the mud under a fine drizzle of rain, while Sir Edmond stood nearby watching the whole affair with his hands in his pockets.

Gasping and slipping in the mud, Simone grabbed her kitty Margaret and threw back her head, which banged violently against the ground. She tensed breathlessly for a few seconds, then released the cat and thrashed around on the ground like a headless chicken, laughing and hitting her head with a terrible bang on the door fittings. Sir Edmond gave her his wrist to grab for support, and as she stood up I saw that she had a few bruises from the fit but was otherwie fine.

After these fits of laughter, she always came to nestle in my arms. She would hand me her cat Margaret, who would meow confusedly at the antics of her mistress, and sit for a long time huddled without moving or speaking, childlike but always somber.

Sir Edmond deployed his ingenuity at providing us with some jokebooks and silly drawings and other funny spectacles, but Simone declared that she wanted to see a rodeo. There were actually three things about rodeos that fascinated her. The first, when the bull comes hurtling out of the bullpen like a big clumsy rat from a hole. The second, when the rider on the bull's back would eventually be thrown to the ground like a clumsy pack of rags. The third, when the colorful rodeo clowns would emerge from their barrels in their colorful gay costumes and try to pacify the temporarily enraged creatures. She shook with excitement as she described these phenomena.

She was on tenterhooks from start to finish at the rodeo, in terror (which of course mainly exprsesed a violent desire) at the thought of seeing the rider tossed up and in danger of being hit by one of the monstrous horns as the bull as it dashed around in a rage. And there is something else I ought to say. WHen the bull makes its quick brutal thrusts over and over trying to gore the displaced rider, any spectator has that feeling of total and repeated lunging as if laughing a hearty belly laugh. The utter nearness of death is also felt in the same way. But these series of prodigious passes are rare. Each time they occur, the unleash a veritable delirium in the arena, and it is well known that at such thrilling instants the women laugh as heartily as the men.

Apropos rodeos, SIr Edmond once told Simone that a lot of spectators like to eat spicy meatballs during the matches in the stands. Perversely they would snack on these beefy treats while watching the antics of the bovines in the arena. Simone took a keen interest in this tale, and since we were attending the first major rodeo of the year that Sunday, she begged Sir Edmond to get her some meatballs to snack on, but added one condition: they had to be the spiciest meatballs he could find.

"I say," objected Sir Edmond, "whatever do you want with spicy meatballs? You don't intend to risk getting heartburn at the rodeo now, do you?"

"I want to have them before me on a plate," concluded Simone.

Chapter Ten
Granero's Eye

On May 7, 1922, the bull riders La Rosa, Lalanda, and Granero were to ride in the arena in Madrid. THe last two were renowned as the best in Spain, and Granero was generally considered better than Lalanda. He had only just turned twenty, yet he was already very popular, being handsome and tall and of a still childlike simplicity. Simone had been very interested in his story and, exceptionally, had shown genuine pleasure when Sir Edmond announced that the celebrated bull rider had agreed to dine with us the evening of the rodeo.

Granero stood out from the rest of the riders because there was a gentleness to him. He looked more like a very masculine prince charming with a perfectly elegant figure. In this respect the rodeo rider's costume is very expressive, for it safeguards the straight line shooting up so rigid and erect as a crowing rooster every time the bucking bull tries to throw him off and because the chaps accentuate the shape of the bum. The cowboy hat and the fringes on the sleeve complete the look, accentuating the ruggedness of the rider and the sport. One must also bear in mind the typically torrid Spanish sky, which never has the color or harshness one imagines. It is just perfectly sunny with a dazzling but mellow sheen as if viewed through the albumen of an egg. It is hot, turbid, and at times even unreal when the combined intensities of light and heat combine and suggest the freedom of the senses.

Now this extreme unreality of the solar blaze was so closely attached to everything happening to me the night of the rodeo on May 7 that the only souvenirs I have of the occasion are a round paper fan, half yellow and half blue, that Simone had that day, and a small illustrated brochure with a description of the program and a few photographs. Later on, during an embarkment, the small valise containing these two souvenirs tumbled into the ocean and was fished out by an Arab with a long pole, which is why these mementos are so poorly preserved. But I need them to fix that event to earthly soil, to a geographic point and an exact date, an event which my mind would otherwise compulsively picture as a simple vision of solar deliquesence.

The first bull who surged out of the gate was a sort of black monster, who charged forth so quickly with the rider on his back that he nearly disemboweled two of the rodeo clowns. Granero was nearly bucked off immediately, but through immense effort retained his grip on the back of the bowl with his muscular thighs and his iron will, which sent a frenzy of cheers through the audience. Each time the bull bucked his body was lifted as if by some sort of spiraling jet. An incredible ovation resounded as Granero released his grip and tumbled behind the bull to the ground like an elegant rag doll, and the clowns who had barely had enough time to recover from the rough start swirled around comically trying to tame the enraged creature and give Granero a chance to rise to his feet and clamber off to safety. Pierre, whom I had snuck into the stadium in  my satchel bag, stood up stiffly in my lap at the sight, and Simone stroked her kitty Margaret with such fury that the poor creature let out a gurgled growl and a hiss. Sir Edmond calmly watched the spectacle with his hands planted firmly in his pockets as usual.

Simone, who was seated between Sir Edmond and myself, was completely roused by the action and she refused to sit down again even when the interminable acclamation for the young rider was over. She took my hand wordlessly and led me to an outer courtyard of the filthy arena, where it had a strong farmlike smell of manure and other animal wastes. We stepped into a rather ripe outhouse and let out our captive animals, Pierre and Margaret, so that they could be unsmothered for a moment and breathe in some direct air, however foul. The cat and rooster joyfully frolicked together, thankful to be at least temporarily out in the open. The enthusiasm and gratitude shown by those two creatures during their brief liberty was not less than the rage and fury shown by the bucking bull during the spectacle we had just observed.

"Cock a doodle doo!" declared Pierre, puffing out his chest and crowing heartily as if a new day had broken.

Our hearts were still beating in our chests and our once-more concealed animal companions were as restless as ever as we returned to our exceptionally good seats in the first row of the arena. When we returned to our place next to Sir Edmond, there, in broad daylight on Simone's seat, lay a white dish containing two perfectly formed fresh meatballs the size and shape of eggs, with specks of spicy pepper that resembled the iris of an eye.

"Here's your spicy meatballs!" declared Sir Edmond to Simone in a slight British accent. This British accent occurred naturally to him because Sir Edmond was, in fact, British. He came by the accent naturally. The accent was a bit posh, but not so exaggerated that he might be mistaken for a man who exclusively prefers the company of other men, despite his apparent purely platonic close friendship with a teenage girl.

"Thanks, Sir Edmond," Simone replied. "That was really thoughtful of you. I shall reimburse you at first opportunity!"

"No need to do so, Simone," Sir Edmond said. "Seeing the smile on your face was reward enough for me. Bon appetit!"

Simone was already kneeling before the plate, peering at it in absorbed interest, but also in an unwonted quandary. Apparently she wanted to do something with the balls of meat in front of her, but didn't know how to go about it, which exasperated her. I suspected the lack of utensils may have something to do with it, for Sir Edmond had not thought to bring any from home. It seemed the Spaniard way was to simply grasp them with their bare hands and nibble, regardless of how much sauce would drip onto their faces and hands, from the looks of how our fellow spectators were consuming them. I picked up the dish to at least let her sit down, but she grabbed it away from me with a categorical "no" and returned it to the stone seat.

Sir Edmond and I were growing annoyed at being the focus of our neighbours' attention just when the rodeo was slackening. I leaned over and whispered to Simone, asking what had gotten into her.

"Idiot!" she replied. "Can't you see I want to get Margaret out so she can sit on the plate but all these people are watching?"

"That's absolutely out of the question," I rejoined. "Your poor kitty will get sauce all over her, and all those spices wouldn't be good for her. And who is going to clean her up later?" Pierre clucked in my satchel, which I clutched closer to my side, trying to silence the poor fowl.

At the same time I took away the dish and made her sit, and I stared at her to let her know that I understood, and I remembered the dish of milk and this renewed desire was unsettling me. From that moment neither of us could keep from fidgeting, and this state of malaise was contagious enough to affect Sir Edmond. I ought to say that the rodeo had become boring. Unpugnacious bulls were being mounted by mediocre riders who didn't know what to do next. And to top it off, because Simone had demanded seats in the sun, we were trapped in an immense vapor of light and muggy heat, which parsed our throats as it bore down on us.

It was really out of the question for Simone to put her pussy Margaret on the plate next to the meatballs. All she could do for the moment is hold the plate on her lap, with Margaret nestled in the folds of her dress. I suggested we sneak off to the outhouse again to give our pets another breath of fresh air, but she refused, and she sat there keenly involved, despite everything, by mediocre riders being bucked off by half-hearted bulls followed, as she put it, by "loss and noise", namely the incessant voiding of the bulls' bowels followed by the rodeo clowns dutifully cleaning up the mess between rides.

Little by little, the sun sucked us into an unreality that fitted our malaise--the wordless and powerless desire to explode. We grimaced because our eyes were blinded, our throats parched, our senses ruffled, and there was no possibility of quenching our desires. We three had managed to share in the morose dissolution that leaves no harmony between the various spasms of the body. We were so far gone that even Granero's return could not pull us out of that stupefying absorption. The bull in the pen he was to ride seemed lethargic and dispirited, and the rituals of the rodeo went on as drearily as before.

The events that followed were without transition or connection, not because they were unrelated but because my attention was so absent as to remain absolutely dissociated. In the matter of just a few seconds, first Simone seized one of the meatballs and tentatively nibbled at it, trying not to get the juices all over her face. Granero mounted the bull and the gates came open and the bull, showing surprising vigor in comparison to the torpor he had displayed while sulking in the pen, quickly bucked his rider. Simone picked up the second meatball with her other hand and suddenly stuffed it vigorously into the hidden pocket of her dress, wherein her kitty was concealed. I could hear Margaret letting out a horrified mewl as the spicy meatball came into contact with the poor kitty, and from the angle I was sitting I could see the poor animal closing her tiny paws around the meaty ovoid treat, curling around it and concealing it from view. At that moment the clowns circled around the still-agitated bull as Granero sat up woozily on the ground. The bull kicked his hooves angrily, kicking up a cloud of dust and sand that hit Granero squarely in the face--once, twice, and then a third time at which some motes of dust flew into the poor rodeo rider's open eye. Granero howled in pain as he raised a hand to his face, rubbing his eyes furiously. Simone, completely rapt by the simultaneity of her absurd mischief along with the intensely regretful scene playing out in front of us, let out a sound that was halfway between a shriek and a guffaw. Her reaction was so violent that she was thrown from her stone seat, banging her face on the way down and bloodying her nose. The clowns hastened to stand between the dust-kicking bull and poor weeping Granero, whose eye and dignity had been immeasurably injured.

Chapter Eleven
Under the Sun of Seville

Thus, two globes of differing size and consistency had been propelled in opposite directions at once, as if to test the limits of Newton's Third Law. The spicy meatball had been thrust into the belly of the poor little pussy concealed in the pocket of Simone's dress. At the same time a mote of dust had flown into the eye of the grounded Granero, irritating that meatball-sized globe as if it had been invaded by the most picante of Spanish peppers. This mad coincidence, this synchronicity, tied to death and a sort of yolky liquefaction of the sky, first brought us back to Marcelle in a moment that was so brief and almost insubstantial and yet so vivid that I stepped forward like a sleepwalker as if to touch her at eye level. 

Needless to say, everything was promptly back to normal, though with new blinding obsessions in the hour after Granero's dusting. Simone was in such a foul mood that she declared to Sir Edmond that she wouldn't spend another day in Madrid. She was very anxious to see Seville because of its reputation as a city of pleasure.

Sir Edmond took a heady delight in satisfying the whims of "the simplest and most angelic creature ever to walk the earth," and so the next day he conveniently carted us off to Seville, where we found an even more liquefying and somehow strangely egglike heat and light than in Madrid. A lavish abundance of flowers in the streets, geraniums and roses and laurels, helped to put our senses on edge.

Simone walked around with a white dress that was so flimsy that you could clearly see her kitty's paws pressed against the fabric of the pocket as she slumbered therein next to her squirt gun, and only the light slip she wore underneath preserved her modesty. Furthermore the sultry atmosphere of the city made her sweat so much that she constantly seemed as though she had been on the losing end of a water pistol duel.

Indeed, every step we took in the city was as though we were squirting each other with water pistols in slow motion. Much of the time it didn't even occur to us to squirt each other, so damp we were with perspiration. But a few times we took advantage of opportunities to give each other a few surreptitious squirts when the opportunity presented itself, often with Sir Edmond standing to the side watching us curiously with his hands in his pockets, as was his manner. But each time we took such an opportunity propelled us to seek out the next whenever we had a chance to do so without being widely observed by anyone but Sir Edmond. An empty museum room, a stairwell, a garden path lined with high bushes, a hedge maze, quiet alleyways in the evenings--we would walk until we found the right place and then seize our pistols and give each other a few frenzied squirts, the fresh water in the guns replacing the salty gritty moistness of our sweat with no one any the wiser in the aftermath. If the area were private enough, we would bring out Margaret and Pierre into the open air to give them a few squirts as well in hopes of cooling them off and keeping them from stirring up any unwanted mischief on their own.

Usually Sir Edmond would follow at a distance, but he would never come over when the water guns were out, let alone my rooster or her kitty. He would merely stand aside, hands in his pockets, whistling quietly to himself. He would do this discreetly, not for caution's sake of course but because he never did anything unless standing isolated and almost utterly steady, with a dreadful muscular contraction. In other words he was the quintessential Englishman in that manner.

"This is a very interesting place," Sir Edmond told us one day with regards to a church. "It is the church of Don Juan."

"So what?" replied Simone.

"Stay here with me," Sir Edmond said to me. "You, Simone, should go around this church all by yourself."

"What a stupid idea," Simone opined.

Nevertheless, however idiotic the idea, it aroused her curiosity and Simone entered the church herself while Sir Edmond and I waited in the street.

Five minutes later, Simone reappeared at the threshold of the church. We were dumbstruck: not only was she laughing uncontrollably, but she could barely speak. Partly beause of contagion and partly because of the intense light I began laughing as hard as she was, and even Sir Edmond let out a hearty chuckle, which was for him a fairly extreme reaction.

"Bloody girl," he said. "Can't you explain? By the bye, we're laughing right over the tomb of Don Juan!"

And laughing even harder, he pointed to a large church brass at our feet. It was the tomb of the church's founder, who, the guides claimed, was Don Juan. After repenting from his many affairs, he had himself buried under the doorstep of this very church so that the faithful would trudge over his corpse upon entering or leaving their haunt.

But now our wild laughter burst out again tenfold. We noticed in our mirth that Simone's squirtgun had sprung a leak, and water was trickling down the inside of her dress onto the tomb.

We noted a further effect of this accident. The thin dress, being wet, made her pockets completely transparent, and her tiny wet cat Margaret was on display next to the leaking water gun she was cuddled up against, a dark patch in the depths of the pocket. Margaret mewled miserably, dissatisfied with her dampness.

"Your little pussy is all wet," Sir Edmond observed.

"All I can do is go back into the church," Simone said. "Margaret will dry off once we get her in there."

We burst into the large space, where Sir Edmond and I vainly sought the comical sight that Simone had been unable to explain. The room was relatively cool, and the light streamed in from colorful stained glass windows, filtering down through curtains of a bright red, transparent cretonne. The ceiling was of carved woodwork, the walls were plastered but bedecked with religious trinkets more or less gilded. The entire back wall was covered from floor to rafters by a gigantic altar and a huge Baroque retable of gilded wood. The ornate and contorted decor conjured up India, with deep shadows and golden glows, and the whole altar at first seemed very mysterious--and just right to duck behind and engage in a surreptitious squirt gun fight. At either side of the entrance door hung two famous canvases by the painter Valdes Leal, gruesomely featuring pictures of decaying corpses, featuring a rat gnawing on an eyeball. Yet in all these things there was nothing funny to be found.

Quite the contrary, the whole place was sumptuous and sensuous. The play of shadows, the light from the red curtains, the coolness of the air, and the strong aroma of blossoming oleander--nothing was making me chuckle besides the sight of poor Margaret curled up soaking wet in Simone's pocket next to her water pistol. And then I spied a pair of silk shoes at a confessional: the feet of a penitent female.

"I want to see them leave," said Simone.

She sat down before me, near the confessional, and I sat down next to her, reaching inside my satchel and giving Pierre a rub. He stirred drowsily at my touch, but didn't crow. I encouraged Simone to give him a rub as well, but she insisted that I keep him tucked away for fear that he might actually stir enough to make noise.

Thus I had to sit and stare at poor sopping wet Margaret, who stirred crankily in her sleep, shivering in Simone's dress pocket. Simone patted her gently through the wet material.

"You'll see what I'm talking about soon," Simone promised.

That was why I patiently waited for the key to the puzzle. After a long while, a very fetching young brunette stepped out of the confessional, hands folded, her face pale and enraptured. With her head thrown back and her eyes white and blank, she slowly eased across the room like a ghost in an opera. There was something so bizarrely unexpected about the whole thing that I desperately bit my cheeks to keep from laughing, when the door of the confessional opened. Someone else emerged, this time a blond priest, very young and handsome, with a long thin face and pale eyes. His arms were crossed on his chest, and he lingered on the threshold of the booth, gazing at a fixed point on the ceiling as though a celestial apparition were about to cause him to levitate.

The priest started to move in the same direction as the woman, and he probably would have vanished in turn without seeing anything if Simone, to my surprise, had not brought him up sharply. Something incredible had occurred to her: she greeted the cleric courteously and said she wanted to confess.

The priest, still gliding in his heavenly ecstasy, indicated the confessional with a distant gesture and reentered his tabernacle, slowly closing the door without a word.

Chapter Twelve
Simone's Confession and Sir Edmond's Mass

One can readily imagine my stupor at watching Simone kneel down by the cabinet of the lugubrious confessor. While she confessed her sins< I waited, extremely anxious to see the outcome of such an unexpected action. I assumed this sordid priest was going to burst from his booth, pounce on the naughty girl, and begin flagellating her. I was even preparing to knock the dreadful man down and treat him to a few kicks in defense of my friend, but nothing of the sort happened: the booth remained closed, Simone spoke on and on through the small grilled window, and that was all.

I was exchanging sharply interrogative glances with Sir Edmond when things began to grow clear: Simone was slowly reaching in the pocket of her dress and rubbing her cat, whose soft purring could barely be heard in the quiet church. Simone continued droning on the litany of naughty activities we had engaged in during the past few weeks.

I softly drew up at the side to try to see what was happening. Simone's hand was in the pocket of her dress and Margaret was beginning to stir confusedly. SImone had her face pressed against the grill near the priest's head, legs at an odd angle to keep the little cat from falling off her lap, her fingers rummaging deep in the cat's fur. I considered trying to reach in to give the cat a stroke, but what little remnant of piety remained in me kept me from doing so. At that moment I distinctly heard Simone say:

"Father, I still have not confessed the worst sin of all."

A few seconds of silence.

"The worst sin of all is very simply that I'm rubbing my wet little pussy while I'm talking to you."

More seconds of whispering inside, and finally almost aloud:

"If you don't believe me, I can show you."

And indeed, Simone stood up and took the tiny damp cat out of her dress pocket, holding it up to the the eye of the window and stroking its wet fur.
